WARNING: EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY, HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS, SEVERE ADVERSE REACTIONS, AND RISK OF MEDICATION ERRORS Methotrexate tablets can cause embryo-fetal toxicity, including fetal death. For non-neoplastic diseases, methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in pregnancy. For neoplastic diseases, advise females and males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to methotrexate, including anaphylaxis [Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Serious adverse reactions, including death, have been reported with methotrexate. Closely monitor for adverse reactions of the bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract, liver, lungs, skin, and kidneys. Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate [Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8)]. Methotrexate tablets when inadvertently administered once daily have resulted in death [Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. WARNING: EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY, HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS, SEVERE ADVERSE REACTIONS, and RISK OF MEDICATION ERRORS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Methotrexate tablets can cause embryo-fetal toxicity, including fetal death. For non-neoplastic diseases, methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in pregnancy. For neoplastic diseases, advise patients of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception (4, 5.1, 8.1, 8.3). Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to methotrexate, including anaphylaxis (4, 5.2). Serious adverse reactions, including death, have been reported with methotrexate. Closely monitor for adverse reactions of the bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract, liver, lungs, skin, and kidneys. Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8). Methotrexate tablets when inadvertently administered once daily have resulted in death (5.9).

4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TREXALL is contraindicated in: Pregnant women receiving TREXALL for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. Patients with a history of a severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to TREXALL [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. In pregnancy for non-neoplastic diseases (4) History of severe hypersensitivity to TREXALL (4)

5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious Infections: Monitor patients for infection during and after treatment with TREXALL. Withhold or discontinue TREXALL for serious infections as appropriate. (5.11) Neurotoxicity: Monitor patients for neurotoxicity and withhold or discontinue TREXALL as appropriate. (5.12) Secondary Malignancies: Can occur with methotrexate. (5.13) Tumor Lysis Syndrome: Institute appropriate prophylactic measures in patients at risk for tumor lysis syndrome prior to initiation of TREXALL. (5.14) Immunizations and Risk Live Vaccines: Immunizations with live vaccines is not recommended. Follow current vaccination practice guidelines. (5.15) Infertility: Can cause impairment of fertility, oligospermia, and menstrual dysfunction. (5.16, 8.3) 5.1 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Based on published reports and its mechanism of action, methotrexate tablets can cause fetal harm, including fetal death, when administered to a pregnant woman. Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated for use in pregnant women receiving TREXALL for the treatment of non-malignant diseases. Advise pregnant women with neoplastic diseases of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with TREXALL and for 6 months after the final dose. Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during TREXALL treatment and for 3 months after the final dose [see Contraindications (4), Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, can occur with TREXALL [see Contraindications (4), Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. If anaphylaxis or other serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs, immediately and permanently discontinue TREXALL [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.3 Myelosuppression TREXALL suppresses hematopoiesis and can cause severe and life-threatening pancytopenia, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Obtain blood counts at baseline, periodically during treatment, and as clinically indicated. Monitor patients for clinical complications of myelosuppression. Withhold, dose reduce, or discontinue methotrexate tablets taking into account the importance of TREXALL treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.4 Gastrointestinal Toxicity Diarrhea, vomiting, nausea, and stomatitis occurred in up to 10% of patients receiving TREXALL for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases. Hemorrhagic enteritis and fatal intestinal perforation have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Patients with peptic ulcer disease or ulcerative colitis are at a greater risk of developing severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Withhold or discontinue TREXALL for severe gastrointestinal toxicity taking into account the importance of TREXALL treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.5 Hepatotoxicity TREXALL can cause severe and potentially irreversible hepatotoxicity, including fibrosis, cirrhosis, and fatal liver failure [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The safety of TREXALL in patients with hepatic disease is unknown. The risk of hepatotoxicity is increased with heavy alcohol consumption. In patients with psoriasis, fibrosis or cirrhosis may occur in the absence of symptoms or abnormal liver tests; the risk of hepatotoxicity appears to increase with total cumulative dose and generally occurs after receipt of a total cumulative dose of 1.5 g or more. Monitor liver tests at baseline, periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated. Withhold or discontinue TREXALL taking into account the importance of TREXALL treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.6 Pulmonary Toxicity Pulmonary toxicity, including acute or chronic interstitial pneumonitis and irreversible or fatal cases, can occur with TREXALL [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Monitor patients for pulmonary toxicity and withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets taking into account the importance of TREXALL treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.7 Dermatologic Reactions Severe, including fatal dermatologic reactions, such as toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens- Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, skin necrosis, and erythema multiforme, can occur with TREXALL [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Exposure to ultraviolet radiation while taking methotrexate may aggravate psoriasis. TREXALL can cause radiation recall dermatitis and photodermatitis (sunburn) reactivation. Monitor patients for dermatologic toxicity and withhold or permanently discontinue TREXALL for severe dermatologic reactions taking into account the importance of TREXALL treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. Advise patients to avoid excessive sun exposure and use sun protection measures. 5.8 Renal Toxicity TREXALL can cause renal toxicity, including irreversible acute renal failure [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Monitor renal function at baseline, periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated. Withhold or discontinue TREXALL for severe renal toxicity taking into account the importance of TREXALL treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. Administer glucarpidase in patients with toxic plasma methotrexate concentrations (> 1 micromole per liter) and delayed TREXALL clearance due to impaired renal function. Refer to the glucarpidase prescribing information for additional information. 5.9 Risk of Fatal Adverse Reactions with Medication Error Deaths occurred in patients as a result of medication errors. Most commonly, these errors occurred in patients who were taking TREXALL daily when a weekly dosing regimen was prescribed. For patients prescribed a once weekly dosing regimen, instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to death. 5.10 Folic Acid Supplementation Neoplastic Diseases Products containing folic acid or its derivatives may decrease the clinical effectiveness of methotrexate. Therefore, instruct patients not to take products containing folic acid or folinic acid unless directed to do so by their healthcare provider. Non-neoplastic Diseases Folate deficiency may increase TREXALL adverse reactions. Administer folic acid or folinic acid for patients with rheumatoid arthritis, pJIA, and psoriasis [see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4, 2.5)]. 5.11 Serious Infections Patients treated with TREXALL are at increased risk for developing life-threatening or fatal bacterial, fungal, or viral infections, including opportunistic infections such as Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, invasive fungal infections, hepatitis B reactivation, tuberculosis primary infection or reactivation, and disseminated Herpes zoster and cytomegalovirus infections [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Monitor patients for infection during and after treatment with methotrexate tablets. Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets for serious infections taking into account the importance of methotrexate tablet treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.12 Neurotoxicity TREXALL can cause severe acute and chronic neurotoxicity, which can be progressive, irreversible, and fatal [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The risk of leukoencephalopathy is increased in patients who received prior cranial radiation. Monitor patients for neurotoxicity and withhold or discontinue TREXALL taking into account the importance of methotrexate tablet treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.13 Secondary Malignancies Secondary malignancies can occur with TREXALL [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The risk of cutaneous malignancies is further increased when cyclosporine is administered to patients with psoriasis who received prior methotrexate. In some cases, lymphoproliferative disease occurring during therapy with low-dose TREXALL regressed completely following withdrawal of methotrexate. If lymphoproliferative disease occurs, discontinue methotrexate tablets [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 5.14 Tumor Lysis Syndrome TREXALL can induce tumor lysis syndrome in patients with rapidly growing tumors. Institute appropriate prophylactic measures in patients at risk for tumor lysis syndrome prior to initiation of TREXALL. 5.15 Immunization and Risks Associated with Live Vaccines Disseminated infections following administration of live vaccines have been reported. Immunization with live vaccines is not recommended during treatment. Follow current vaccination practice guidelines for administration of immunizations in patients receiving TREXALL. Update immunizations according to immunization guidelines prior to initiating methotrexate tablets. The interval between live vaccinations and initiation of methotrexate should be in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunosuppressive agents. 5.16 Infertility Based on published reports, methotrexate can cause impairment of fertility, oligospermia, and menstrual dysfunction. It is not known if the infertility may be reversible. Discuss the risk of infertility with females and males of reproductive potential [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3)]. 5.17 Increased Risk of Adverse Reactions Due to Third-Space Accumulation Methotrexate accumulates in third-spaces (e.g., pleural effusions or ascites), which results in prolonged elimination and increases the risk of adverse reactions. Evacuate significant third- space accumulations prior to methotrexate tablets administration taking into account the importance of methotrexate tablet treatment in the context of the severity of the disease being treated, the severity of the adverse drug reaction, and availability of alternative therapy.

6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Gastrointestinal Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Pulmonary Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Dermatologic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Renal Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Serious Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Secondary Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Tumor Lysis Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Increased Risk of Adverse Reactions Due to Third-Space Accumulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Common adverse reactions include ulcerative stomatitis, leukopenia, nausea, abdominal distress. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva at 1-888-838-2872 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials and other studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Common adverse reactions were: ulcerative stomatitis, leukopenia, nausea, and abdominal distress. Other clinically relevant adverse reactions were infection, malaise, fatigue, chills, fever, and dizziness. Rheumatoid Arthritis The most common adverse reactions of methotrexate that exceeded the rate of placebo in 12- to 18-week double-blind studies in patients (n=128) with rheumatoid arthritis are listed below. Patients received methotrexate 7.5 mg to 15 mg orally once weekly. Most patients received concomitant nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and some also received corticosteroids. Hepatic histology was not examined in these short-term studies. Incidence ≥10%: Incidence 3% to <10%: Incidence 1% to <3%: Elevated liver tests 15%, nausea/vomiting 10% Stomatitis, thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 100,000/mm3) Rash/pruritus/dermatitis, diarrhea, alopecia, leukopenia (white blood cell count < 3000/mm3), pancytopenia, dizziness Two other controlled trials of patients (n=680) with rheumatoid arthritis who received methotrexate 7.5 mg to 15 mg orally once weekly showed the following serious adverse reaction: Incidence 1%: Interstitial pneumonitis Other less common adverse reactions were: anemia, headache, upper respiratory infection, anorexia, arthralgias, chest pain, coughing, dysuria, eye discomfort, epistaxis, fever, infection, sweating, tinnitus, vaginal discharge. Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA) The most common adverse reactions reported in patients 2 to 18 years of age with pJIA treated with methotrexate 5 mg/m2 to 20 mg/m2 orally once weekly or 0.1 to 0.65 mg/kg orally once weekly were as follows: elevated liver tests 14%; gastrointestinal reactions (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) 11%; stomatitis 2%; leukopenia 2%; headache 1.2%; alopecia 0.5%; dizziness 0.2%; rash 0.2%. Most patients received concomitant NSAIDs and some also received corticosteroids. Psoriasis In two published series of adults with psoriasis (n=204, 248) who received methotrexate up to 25 mg per week for up to 4 years, adverse reaction rates were similar to those in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, except for alopecia, photosensitivity, and “burning of skin lesions” (3% to 10% each). Painful plaque erosions have been reported. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of methotrexate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure Cardiovascular: Thromboembolic events (including arterial thrombosis, cerebral thrombosis, deep vein thrombosis, retinal vein thrombosis, thrombophlebitis, and pulmonary embolus), pericarditis, pericardial effusion, hypotension, sudden death Endocrine: Diabetes Eye: Optic neuropathy, blurred vision, ocular pain, conjunctivitis, xerophthalmia Gastrointestinal: Hemorrhagic enteritis, intestinal perforation, gingivitis, pancreatitis, pharyngitis, hematemesis, melena, gastrointestinal ulceration Hematology: Aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, hypogammaglobulinemia Hepatobiliary: Acute hepatitis, decreased serum albumin, fibrosis, cirrhosis Immune system: Anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, vasculitis Metabolism: Hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal: Stress fracture, soft tissue and bone necrosis, arthralgia, myalgia, osteoporosis Nervous system: Headaches, drowsiness, blurred vision, speech impairment (including dysarthria and aphasia), transient cognitive dysfunction, mood alteration, unusual cranial sensations, paresis, encephalopathy, and convulsions. Renal: Azotemia, hematuria, proteinuria, cystitis Reproductive: Defective oogenesis or spermatogenesis, loss of libido, impotence, gynecomastia, menstrual dysfunction Respiratory: Pulmonary fibrosis, respiratory failure, chronic interstitial obstructive pulmonary disease, pleuritic pain and thickening, alveolitis Skin: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, skin necrosis, and erythema multiforme, erythematous rashes, pruritus, alopecia, skin ulceration, accelerated nodulosis, urticaria, pigmentary changes, ecchymosis, telangiectasia, photosensitivity, acne, furunculosis
