Tracking Information

Publication Number

100-3

Manual Section Number

240.4

Manual Section Title

Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy For Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA)

Version Number

Effective Date of this Version

03/13/2008

Ending Effective Date of this Version

Implementation Date

08/04/2008

Implementation QR Modifier Date

Description Information

Benefit Category

Durable Medical Equipment

Please Note: This may not be an exhaustive list of all applicable Medicare benefit categories for this item or service.

Item/Service Description

A. General

Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) is a non-invasive technique for providing single levels of air pressure from a flow generator, via a nose mask, through the nares. The purpose is to prevent the collapse of the oropharyngeal walls and the obstruction of airflow during sleep, which occurs in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

The apnea hypopnea index (AHI) is equal to the average number of episodes of apnea and hypopnea per hour. The respiratory disturbance index (RDI) is equal to the average number of respiratory disturbances per hour.

Apnea is defined as a cessation of airflow for at least 10 seconds. Hypopnea is defined as an abnormal respiratory event lasting at least 10 seconds with at least a 30% reduction in thoracoabdominal movement or airflow as compared to baseline, and with at least a 4% oxygen desaturation.

The AHI and/or RDI may be measured by polysomnography (PSG) in a facility-based sleep study laboratory, or by a Type II home sleep test (HST) monitor, a Type III HST monitor, or a Type IV HST monitor measuring at least 3 channels.

Indications and Limitations of Coverage

B. Nationally Covered Indications

Effective for claims with dates of service on and after March 13, 2008, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) determines that CPAP therapy when used in adult patients with OSA is considered reasonable and necessary under the following situations:

The use of CPAP is covered under Medicare when used in adult patients with OSA. Coverage of CPAP is initially limited to a 12-week period to identify beneficiaries diagnosed with OSA as subsequently described who benefit from CPAP. CPAP is subsequently covered only for those beneficiaries diagnosed with OSA who benefit from CPAP during this 12-week period.

The provider of CPAP must conduct education of the beneficiary prior to the use of the CPAP device to ensure that the beneficiary has been educated in the proper use of the device. A caregiver, for example a family member, may be compensatory, if consistently available in the beneficiary's home and willing and able to safely operate the CPAP device.

A positive diagnosis of OSA for the coverage of CPAP must include a clinical evaluation and a positive:

attended PSG performed in a sleep laboratory; or

unattended HST with a Type II home sleep monitoring device; or

unattended HST with a Type III home sleep monitoring device; or

unattended HST with a Type IV home sleep monitoring device that measures at least 3 channels.

The sleep test must have been previously ordered by the beneficiary’s treating physician and furnished under appropriate physician supervision.

An initial 12-week period of CPAP is covered in adult patients with OSA if either of the following criterion using the AHI or RDI are met:

AHI or RDI greater than or equal to 15 events per hour, or

AHI or RDI greater than or equal to 5 events and less than or equal to 14 events per hour with documented symptoms of excessive daytime sleepiness, impaired cognition, mood disorders or insomnia, or documented hypertension, ischemic heart disease, or history of stroke.

The AHI or RDI is calculated on the average number of events of per hour. If the AHI or RDI is calculated based on less than 2 hours of continuous recorded sleep, the total number of recorded events to calculate the AHI or RDI during sleep testing must be at a minimum the number of events that would have been required in a 2-hour period.

Apnea is defined as a cessation of airflow for at least 10 seconds. Hypopnea is defined as an abnormal respiratory event lasting at least 10 seconds with at least a 30% reduction in thoracoabdominal movement or airflow as compared to baseline, and with at least a 4% oxygen desaturation.

Coverage with Evidence Development (CED): Medicare provides the following limited coverage for CPAP in adult beneficiaries who do not qualify for CPAP coverage based on criteria 1-7 above. A clinical study seeking Medicare payment for CPAP provided to a beneficiary who is an enrolled subject in that study must address one or more of the following questions

In Medicare-aged subjects with clinically identified risk factors for OSA, how does the diagnostic accuracy of a clinical trial of CPAP compare with PSG and Type II, III & IV HST in identifying subjects with OSA who will respond to CPAP?

In Medicare-aged subjects with clinically identified risk factors for OSA who have not undergone confirmatory testing with PSG or Type II, III & IV HST, does CPAP cause clinically meaningful harm?

The study must meet the following additional standards:

The principal purpose of the research study is to test whether a particular intervention potentially improves the participants’ health outcomes.

The research study is well-supported by available scientific and medical information or it is intended to clarify or establish the health outcomes of interventions already in common clinical use.

The research study does not unjustifiably duplicate existing studies.

The research study design is appropriate to answer the research question being asked in the study.

The research study is sponsored by an organization or individual capable of executing the proposed study successfully.

The research study is in compliance with all applicable Federal regulations concerning the protection of human subjects found at 45 CFR Part 46. If a study is Food and Drug Administration-regulated, it also must be in compliance with 21 CFR Parts 50 and 56.

All aspects of the research study are conducted according to the appropriate standards of scientific integrity.

The research study has a written protocol that clearly addresses, or incorporates by reference, the Medicare standards.

The clinical research study is not designed to exclusively test toxicity or disease pathophysiology in healthy individuals. Trials of all medical technologies measuring therapeutic outcomes as one of the objectives meet this standard only if the disease or condition being studied is life-threatening as defined in 21 CFR § 312.81(a) and the patient has no other viable treatment options.

The clinical research study is registered on the ClinicalTrials.gov Web site by the principal sponsor/investigator prior to the enrollment of the first study subject.

The research study protocol specifies the method and timing of public release of all pre-specified outcomes to be measured, including release of outcomes if outcomes are negative or study is terminated early. The results must be made public within 24 months of the end of data collection. If a report is planned for publication in a peer-reviewed journal, then that initial release may be an abstract that meets the requirements of the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. However, a full report of the outcomes must be made public no later than 3 years after the end of data collection.

The research study protocol must explicitly discuss subpopulations affected by the treatment under investigation, particularly traditionally underrepresented groups in clinical studies, how the inclusion and exclusion criteria affect enrollment of these populations, and a plan for the retention and reporting of said populations in the trial. If the inclusion and exclusion criteria are expected to have a negative effect on the recruitment or retention of underrepresented populations, the protocol must discuss why these criteria are necessary.

The research study protocol explicitly discusses how the results are or are not expected to be generalizable to the Medicare population to infer whether Medicare patients may benefit from the intervention. Separate discussions in the protocol may be necessary for populations eligible for Medicare due to age, disability, or Medicaid eligibility.

C. Nationally Non-covered Indications

Effective for claims with dates of services on and after March 13, 2008, other diagnostic tests for the diagnosis of OSA, other than those noted above for prescribing CPAP, are not sufficient for the coverage of CPAP.

D. Other

N/A

(This NCD last reviewed March 2008.)

Cross Reference

See Section 280.1, Durable Medical Equipment Reference List

CED page

Claims Processing Instructions

Transmittal Information

Transmittal Number

96

Coverage Transmittal Link

https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Guidance/Transmittals/Downloads/R96NCD.pdf

Revision History

10/2008 - NOTE: Transmittal 96, dated October 15, 2008 rescinds and replaces Transmittal 94, dated August 29, 2008. The only change is a clarification to the verbiage under the Policy section of the Business Requirements at I.B.3. All other information remains the same. Additionally, this clarification does not in any way constitute revisions to the corresponding NCD at 240.4 of Pub 100-03. (TN 96) (CR6048)

08/2008 - NOTE: Transmittal 94, dated August 29, 2008 rescinds and replaces Transmittal 91, dated July 25, 2008. The only change is a clarification to the verbiage under the Policy section of the Business Requirements at I.B.3. All other information remains the same. Additionally, this clarification does not in any way constitute revisions to the corresponding NCD at 240.4 of Pub 100-03. (TN 94) (CR6048)

07/2008 - After reconsideration, coverage for CPAP therapy for OSA is expanded to include a positive diagnosis of OSA made using a home sleep test under specified criteria. Effective date: 03/13/2008. Implementation date: 08/04/2008. (TN 91) (CR6048)

05/2005 - Found insufficient evidence to conclude that unattended portable multi-channel sleep study testing is reasonable and necessary in diagnosis of OSA for CPAP therapy, and these tests remain non-covered for this purpose. Effective date 04/04/2005. Implementation date 06/06/2005. (TN 35) (CR 3843)

12/2001 - Expanded coverage for use in obstructive sleep apnea. Effective and implementation dates 04/01/2002. (TN 150) (CR 1949)

06/1987 - Revised indications for treatment to include patients for whom surgery is a likely alternative to CPAP, and deleted documentation requirements. Effective date 01/12/1987. (TN 15)

12/1986 - Provided coverage when used in adult patients with moderate or severe obstructive sleep apnea who have failed to obtain relief from other non-invasive therapies. Effective date 01/12/1987. (TN 12)

Other

National Coverage Analyses (NCAs)

This NCD has been or is currently being reviewed under the National Coverage
Determination process. The following are existing associations with NCAs, from the National
Coverage Analyses database.

Original Consideration for Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy for Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) (CAG-00093N)

First reconsideration for Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy for Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) (CAG-00093R)

Second reconsideration for Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy for Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) (CAG-00093R2)

Coding Analyses for Labs (CALs)

This NCD has been or is currently being reviewed under the National Coverage
Determination process. The following are existing associations with CALs, from the Coding Analyses for Labs
database.

Additional Information

Other Versions

Title
Version
Effective Between

Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy For Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA)
3
03/13/2008 - N/A

You are here

Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy For Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA)
2
04/04/2005 - 03/13/2008

View

Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP)
1
04/01/2002 - 04/04/2005

View

CPT Copyright Statement

CPT only copyright 2002-2011 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
CPT is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association. Applicable FARS/DFARS Apply to Government Use.
Fee schedules, relative value units, conversion factors and/or related components are not assigned by the AMA, are not part of CPT, and the AMA is not recommending their use.
The AMA does not directly or indirectly practice medicine or dispense medical services.
The AMA assumes no liability for data contained or not contained herein.

Reasons for Denial

Note: This section has not been negotiated by the Negotiated RuleMaking Committee.
It includes CMS’s interpretation of it’s longstanding policies and is included for informational purposes.
Tests for screening purposes that are performed in the absense of signs, symptoms, complaints, or personal history of disease or
injury are not covered except as explicity authorized by statue.
These include exams required by insurance companies, business establishments, government agencies, or other third parties.
Tests that are not reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury are not covered according to the statue.
Failure to provide documentation of the medical necessity of tests may result in denial of claims.
The documentation may include notes documenting relevant signs, symptoms, or abnormal findings that substantiate the medical necessity for ordering the tests.
In addition, failure to provide independent verification that the test was ordered by the treating physician (or qualified nonphysician practitioner)
through documentation in the physician’s office may result in denial.
A claim for a test for which there is a national coverage or local medical review policy will be denied as not reasonable and necessary
if it is submitted without an ICD-9-CM code or narrative diagnosis listed as covered in the policy unless other medical documentation
justifying the necessity is submitted with the claim.
If a national or local policy identifies a frequency expectation, a claim for a test that exceeds that expectation may be denied as
not reasonable and necessary, unless it is submitted with documentation justifying increased frequency.
Tests that are not ordered by a treating physician or other qualified treating nonphysician practitioner acting within the scope of
their license and in compliance with Medicare requirements will be denied as not reasonable and necessary.
Failure of the laboratory performing the test to have the appropriate Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1988 (CLIA) certificate
for the testing performed will result in denial of claims.

Email this document to yourself or someone else

An asterisk (*) indicates a required field.
This email will be sent to the
recipient email address(es) you enter and will include the text entered into
the Your Name and Your Email fields. You can specify multiple email
addresses by separating the email addresses with a comma or semi-colon.
Please do not use this feature to contact CMS. To submit a comment or
question to CMS, please use the Feedback/Ask a Question link available at
the bottom of every MCD page. By submitting information here, you
acknowledge that this data will be logged. For more information see the CMS Privacy Policy.

*
Your Name:

*
Your Name:

Your Email:

Your Email:

*
Recipient's Email(s):

*
Recipient's Email(s):

Message:
Message:

Send Email
Cancel

You are viewing an older NCD version

This is not the latest version of the document. Would you like to see the latest version?

View latest version
Cancel

Page Help for NCD - Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Therapy For Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) (240.4)

Close

Introduction

This page displays your requested National Coverage Determination (NCD). The document is broken into multiple sections. You can use the Contents side panel to help navigate the various sections. You can Hide or Show the Contents panel by clicking on the "Contents" label at the top.

National Coverage Determinations (NCDs) are national policy granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage for a specific medical item or service.

More information

NCDs are developed and published by CMS and apply to all states. NCDs are made through an evidence-based process, with opportunities for public participation. Medicare coverage is limited to items and services that are considered "reasonable and necessary" for the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury (and within the scope of a Medicare benefit category). An NCD sets forth the extent to which Medicare will cover specific services, procedures, or technologies on a national basis. Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) are required to follow NCDs.

If an NCD does not specifically exclude/limit an indication or circumstance, or if the item or service is not mentioned at all in an NCD or in a Medicare manual, an item or service may be covered at the discretion of the MAC based on a Local Coverage Determination (LCD). LCDs cannot contradict NCDs, but exist to clarify an NCD or address common coverage issues.

Prior to implementation of an NCD, CMS must first issue a Manual Transmittal, CMS ruling, or Federal Register Notice giving specific directions to claims-processing contractors. That issuance, which includes an effective date and implementation date, is the NCD. If appropriate, the Agency must also change billing and claims processing systems and issue related instructions to allow for payment. The NCD will be published in the Medicare National Coverage Determinations Manual. An NCD becomes effective as of the date of the decision memorandum.

Creating a document PDF

Click the Download button in the top right corner of the document (i.e., to the right of the document title).

Subscriptions

Subscribe to any NCD, NCA, CAL, LCD, or Article by clicking the Subscribe button at the top of the document. View your current subscriptions by clicking the Bell icon in the navbar. An exclamation mark next to the Bell icon indicates that at least one of your subscriptions has a newer document version available. A View button in the Newer Version column indicates that a newer version of an NCD, NCA, CAL, LCD, or Article has been published on the MCD. Clicking View opens the most recent version of the document.

Submit Feedback/Ask a Question

Get email updates

Sign up to get the latest information about your choice of CMS topics. You can decide how often to receive updates.

Email

Sign up - opens in a new window
Sign up

CMS & HHS Websites
CMS & HHS Websites

Medicare.gov

Medicaid.gov

InsureKidsNow.gov

HealthCare.gov

HHS.gov

HHS.gov/Open

About CMS
About CMS

About Us

Careers

Newsroom

Tools
Tools

Acronyms

Archive

Contacts

Glossary

Helpful Links
Helpful Links

Privacy Policy

Plain Language

Nondiscrimination & Accessibility

Developer Information

Vulnerability Disclosure Policy

USA Government Sites
USA Government Sites

Freedom of Information Act

No Fear Act

Inspector General

USA.gov

Connect with CMS

Linkedin link

Youtube link

Facebook link

Twitter link

RSS Feed link

A federal government website managed and paid for by the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.

7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Many questions can be answered on the Help & Resources page in the How To Library or by viewing the FAQs below. Please take a look and if you still have questions or would like to leave feedback, contact us!

Are you a provider and have a question about billing or coding?

Please contact your Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC). MACs can be found in the MAC Contacts Report.

Do you have questions related to the content of a specific Local Coverage Determination (LCD) or an Article?

Please contact the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) who owns the document. The contractor information can be found at the top of the document in the Contractor Information section (expand the section to see the details). MACs can also be can be found in the MAC Contacts Report.

Are you a beneficiary and have questions about your coverage?

Please call 1-800-Medicare or visit Medicare.gov

Are you looking for codes? (e.g., CPT/HCPCS, ICD-10)

Local Coverage

For the most part, codes are no longer included in the LCD (policy). You will find them in the Billing & Coding Articles. Try using the MCD Search to find what you're looking for. Enter the code you're looking for in the "Enter keyword, code, or document ID" box. The list of results will include documents which contain the code you entered.

Please Note: For Durable Medical Equipment (DME) MACs only, CPT/HCPCS codes remain located in LCDs. All other Codes (ICD-10, Bill Type, and Revenue) have moved to Articles for DME MACs, as they have for the other Local Coverage MAC types.

National Coverage

NCDs do not contain claims processing information like diagnosis or procedure codes nor do they give instructions to the provider on how to bill Medicare for the service or item. For this supplementary claims processing information we rely on other CMS publications, namely Change Requests (CR) Transmittals and inclusions in the Medicare Fee-For-Service Claims Processing Manual (CPM).

In order for CMS to change billing and claims processing systems to accommodate the coverage conditions within the NCD, we instruct contractors and system maintainers to modify the claims processing systems at the national or local level through CR Transmittals. CRs are not policy, rather CRs are used to relay instructions regarding the edits of the various claims processing systems in very descriptive, technical language usually employing the codes or code combinations likely to be encountered with claims subject to the policy in question. As clinical or administrative codes change or system or policy requirements dictate, CR instructions are updated to ensure the systems are applying the most appropriate claims processing instructions applicable to the policy.

How do I find out if a specific CPT code is covered in my state?

Enter the CPT/HCPCS code in the MCD Search and select your state from the drop down. (You may have to accept the AMA License Agreement.) Look for a Billing and Coding Article in the results and open it. (Or, for DME MACs only, look for an LCD.) Review the article, in particular the Coding Information section.

If you need more information on coverage, contact the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) who published the document. The contractor information can be found at the top of the document in the Contractor Information section (expand the section to see the details).

If you don’t find the Article you are looking for, contact your MAC.

Did you receive a Medicare coverage denial?

Was your Medicare claim denied? Here are some hints to help you find more information:

1) Check out the Beneficiary card on the MCD Search page.

2) Try using the MCD Search and enter your information in the "Enter keyword, code, or document ID" box. Your information could include a keyword or topic you're interested in; a Local Coverage Determination (LCD) policy or Article ID; or a CPT/HCPCS procedure/billing code or an ICD-10-CM diagnosis code. Try entering any of this type of information provided in your denial letter.

3) Contact your MAC.

4) Visit Medicare.gov or call 1-800-Medicare.

It is Thursday and the weekly MCD data isn’t refreshed?

Please use the Reset Search Data function, found in the top menu under the Settings (gear) icon. If that doesn’t work please contact technical support.

Are you having technical issues with the Medicare Coverage Database (MCD)?

Technical issues include things such as a link is broken, a report fails to run, a page is not displaying correctly, a search is taking an unexpectedly long time to complete. If you are having an issue like this please contact technical support.

Submit Feedback/Ask a Question
Cancel

MCD Session Expiration Warning

Your MCD session is currently set to expire in 5 minutes due to inactivity. If your session expires, you will lose all items in your basket and any active searches. If you would like to extend your session, you may select the Continue Button.

Continue
Cancel

Reset MCD Search Data

If you are experiencing any technical issues related to the search, selecting the 'OK' button to reset the search data should resolve your issues.

OK
Cancel

Notice

You are leaving the CMS MCD and are being redirected to the CMS MCD Archive that contains outdated (No Longer In Effect) Local Coverage Determinations and Articles

Continue
Cancel

Notice

You are leaving the CMS MCD and are being redirected to

Continue
Cancel

MCD Alert

Close

Yes
No
Close

Subscriptions

Subscribe to any NCD, NCA, CAL, LCD, or Article by clicking Subscribe at the top of the page. Clicking a document ID link will take you to the subscribed version. Clicking View will take you to the latest document version available, which may not yet be in effect. Click the Trash icon to cancel your subscription(s).

ID
Title
Newer Version
Type
Contractor

Close
